{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww38100\viewh21300\viewkind1
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Reviewer #1: \

\f1\i\b0 The major thrust of this paper is more to do with Oceanic than with computational approaches or other methodological aspects. In fact, when the author has a chance to say something about methodology, they seem to shy away from it. For example, page 32, "The Comparative Method is well developed in terms of identifying cognates and sound correspondences, but the estimation of branch lengths has received less attention. This need not mean a return to glottochronology, this appears to be a misguided and overly simplistic approach (Greenhill 2015:371), there are other alternatives." Estimation of branch lengths has never been a goal of the CM, so it is not surprising that it received less attention. It seems like a decidedly odd statement. 
\f2\i0 \
\
Response: I understand the reviewers point here and have done a major overhaul of the layout of the arguments to make the paper clearer. In particular, I have spent more time and effort to tease apart what is general methodology in historical linguistics and what is particular to CM. Historical linguists do sometimes represent trees with branch lengths in them, even though they are not explicitly estimating them. I just wanted to make clear and explicit to the reader that branch estimation is not part of the method since this has consequences for ASR-methods. This isn\'92t surprising, because as the reviewer says this isn\'92t a goal of CM. I \

\f1\i \
And the second of those sentences is just several phrases strung together most unclearly (and ungrammatically). Is the "this" which is misguided and overly simplistic glottochronology? Well, that's not news -- but also why is no\
comment/reference made to any of the work around assessing and improving glottochronology? Especially when the phrase "there are other alternatives" is just thrown out there, and left hanging. This whole paragraph needs major reworking.
\f2\i0 \
\
Response: I have reworked these paragraphs to be clearer.\
\

\f1\i There are a few typos and minor grammar errors -- nothing that interferes with comprehension, and which would easily be caught in a careful edit. \

\f2\i0 \
Response: I have gone over the paper with more sophisticated spell-checking and with a native speaker. I hope we have caught the errors the reviewer refers to.\
\

\f1\i There are also a few odd phrasings, e.g. on page 5, about the middle of the page, when the phrase "horizontal transfer" is used but not "borrowing". \

\f2\i0 \
Response: I have replaced \'93horizontal transfer\'94 with contact to make it clearer.\
\

\f1\i The colour does not come out in Figure 2 (there is supposedly purple, yellow, and white, but I only see black and white).\

\f2\i0 \
Response: I do not know what has happened here, the figure has purple, yellow and white colors. I can change it to another color scheme if the reviewer and/or editor has a specific suggestion.\
\

\f1\i In section 5 ("Conclusions"), there are instances of "(?)" being included. I have no idea what this means, or maybe that the author just didn't finish the paper.  Three lines from the bottom of page 32 ("Computational endeavours of curating lexical cognate data (?)") and last line of page 32 ("Methods are being developed for automatic cognate detection (?)") -- are these just references that the author forgot to put in? And again on page 33 (fourth line, after the Greenhill reference; and final line of the paper "alongside ?") -- did this just not get finished?\
\

\f2\i0 Response: My apologies, this is was due to broken links to the reference manager. I have addressed this now. I\'92m sorry for the confusion.\
\

\f1\i As it stands currently, the paper is a bit long for its import. Part of this is the need for diagrams/trees, which can't be helped, but also much of the Appendices (page 38 onwards) could be summarized, eliminated, or put online on a non- ephemeral website.\
\

\f2\i0 Response: I understand. I would be happy to move material from the SM explicitly to a repository online, no worries. I will discuss with the editors what they prefer precisely. My preference would be Zenodo and GitHub.\

\f1\i \
There are also several places, especially near the beginning (e.g. page 4) and in the "Background" section, where the author should assume more knowledge of historical linguistics than they do. 
\f2\i0 \
\
Response: I understand the reviewers point here, but I\'92m hoping to be able to retain much of this text. I would like to reach an audience of researchers working on language and cultural history but without extensive training in traditional historical linguistics. I would also like to lay out the methodology as explicitly as possible to make the comparisons as clear as I can. For these reasons, I would like to keep sections that may explain things that already are obvious to the historical linguist. I hope the editors can provide feedback here.\
\

\f1\i A few unnecessary side comments could likely be removed, as they don't seem to relate to the main development of the paper (e.g. the comment on page 8 re Pawley). \

\f2\i0 \
Response: I would like to keep this point, but I agree that I ought to make it more clear how this relates so I have rephrased it and moved it so it relates more clearly to the need for more methods for branch estimation in classical HL. I have woven it in with a discussion of future work in the conclusion section instead.\
\

\f1\i I don't see the need for Figure 4 to take up a whole page.\

\f2\i0 \
Response: Agreed, I have changed the figure placement so that it does not have its own page now.\
\

\f1\i It is good that (App A) the dataset will be published and the code will be available (with understandable restrictions).\

\f2\i0 \
Response: I am glad the reviewer likes this, it pleases me greatly too.\
\

\f0\b Reviewer #2: Review of "Dissecting historical reconstruction"
\f2\b0 \

\f1\i This paper assesses the extent to which reconstructions carried out by approaches borrowed from computational biology agree with traditional reconstructions produced by historical linguistics, focusing on the morphosyntax of Austronesian languages. Unlike previous studies of automated reconstruction of morphosyntax, it takes into account parsimony as well as likelihood-based approaches (along with a simple frequency-based method). The former methodology is often neglected by linguists due to the many problems associated with it in the biological literature (e.g., long branch attraction, etc.) as well as the fact that many linguistic traits in general exhibit a great deal of homoplasy. Nonetheless, a concrete assessment of its merits alongside likelihood-based methods is welcome.\
This is a paper with promise due to its careful comparison of different methods as well as its use of a large new dataset. I do think, however, that additional work is needed before this paper can achieve its full potential as a resource for historical linguists. While the methodology can largely stand as it currently is, I feel that the general framing of the paper could use a bit more thought, both on a broader level and more narrowly (more specific points can be found below). The results must be unpacked considerably as well.\
At its core, the paper compares the reconstructions produced by different methods against traditional approaches. The sales pitch of the paper is that this comparison will help us better understand how traditional methods work. However, it was not exactly clear to me how the results of the paper shed light on this issue, and this needs to be spelled out more clearly. E.g., because parsimony approaches seem to have the highest scores (marginally) for all metrics, does this mean that traditional historical linguists prefer reconstructions that minimize the number of changes over the tree? Or because all methods perform similarly, does it mean that traditional reconstructions take into account the criteria/properties of minimal change, branch lengths, and frequency equally? These three methods are set up in opposition to each other, so it would be nice to know what they tell us individually about the logic behind traditional reconstruction. A careful discussion along these\
lines is currently missing.
\f2\i0 \
\
Response: I thank the reviewer for their thoughtful review and kind words. In the most recent version of the paper, I have attempted to address precisely what the reviewer is pointing out here and make clearer what I see as the take-away, which is that \
\
Out of the three Parsimony results, the one that is the most similar to HL is Parsimony Glottolog. The other two, the ones based on the trees from Gray et al 2009 are less similar to HL but more similar to each other.\

\f1\i \
In order for the paper to serve its stated purpose, the results have to be disaggregated and explained in more detail. For the results to be interpretable, we have to know at the feature (or at least domain) level what circumstances lead to good performance among different methods. For instance, do the parsimony and frequency metrics perform better when a feature is relatively homogeneous at the subgroup level? Would ML methods achieve a better reconstruction for a feature that shows less phylogenetic stability? There are a number of metrics that the authors could employ to characterize the phylogenetic distribution of different features within Austronesian that could be systematically compared to model performance. The authors could potentially address these questions using correlation analyses or logistic regression (e.g., by showing that the phylogenetic stability of a feature according to Blomberg's K has an effect on the accuracy with which it is reconstructed by MP).\
\

\f2\i0 Response: I was much intrigued with the reviewer suggestion of comparing against a measurement of phylogenetic signal. I incorporated an estimation of phylogenetic signal, D-estimates (Fritz & Purvis 2010). This allowed me to run a comparison between agreement between computational results and HL against phylogenetic signal, which I included in the updated version in supplementary material and mention in the main text. The results show that there is not a correlation, a strong phylogenetic signal does not predict a high agreement between methods. There are after all not that many instances where the reconstructions differ, it may be that there was not enough variation in the agreement with HL-variable for phylogenetic signal to add much information.
\f1\i \
\
\
Additionally, there are numerous instances of mechanical errors (misplaced commas in numeric figures, bibtex errors, "maximal likelihood") which can be easily fixed.\
Some narrower points follow:\
The use of "comparative method" in this paper strikes me as a bit odd. The authors are right that the comparative method can be used to formal lexical as well as grammatical elements. But its use to reconstruct more abstract patterns of the type found in typological databases is far more controversial, with many linguists arguing that the reconstruction of abstract patterns is outside the purview of the comparative method unless the "double cognacy condition" is fulfilled (Walkden 2013). There is a definite disconnect between the procedure described on p. 7 and the approach of Hale, Chung, etc. "Traditional approaches" might be a more neutral term that readers will not immediately object to.\
P. 6, l. 18: This statement is imprecise. SCM is a procedure that simulates character histories using CTM rates. These rates are usually estimated on the basis of the tree topology and the data attested at tree tips before SCM is carried out. So SCM is a procedure that can follow the method described by Goldstein (but can also be used with arbitrarily defined rates).\
P. 9: the claim that Maximum Parsimony implicitly assumes the slowest rate of change is intuitive, but unsupported here by any literature or proof. It might be good to cite some literature on likelihood-based approximations of parsimony. Chapter 9 of Felsenstein 2004 has some valuable information.\
P. 16: maybe I am wrong, but I don't see the utility of using F1 scores here, apart from the fact that they are used in related work. If I understand correctly, the authors treat "presence" and "absence" as meaningful labels, such that features erroneously reconstructed as present or absent are treated differently, as false positives and false negatives. This strikes me as a bit odd, since many of the survey questions could be re-expressed in a reverse fashion, e.g., "do content interrogatives occur in situ" vs. "do content interrogatives exhibit movement?" making the labels present/absent meaningless (this is different from predicting whether a lexical item had a particular meaning, as lexemes can also exhibit polysemy). All that really matters, it seems, is whether or not a prediction is correct. The authors admit as much on p. 18, but continue to report F1 scores which is a bit confusing and doesn't contribute much.\
It is not clear to me what the point of using ML methods with a glottolog tree is, since it does not adhere to the assumptions of the method (no branch lengths). This adds unnecessarily to the large number of results that we have to wade through.\
As mentioned above, it would be helpful to disaggregate the data across core domains in the survey. Where do different methods perform well/poorly? If there are domains/features where parsimony does not perform well, it would be interesting to look at the rates of the ML model -- could these be features exhibiting faster change?\
References\
Blomberg, S. P., Garland Jr, T., & Ives, A. R. (2003). Testing for phylogenetic signal in comparative data: behavioral traits are more labile. Evolution, 57(4), 717-745.\
Felsenstein, J. (2004). Inferring phylogenies. Sunderland, Mass.: Sinauer Associates.\
Walkden, G. 2013. The correspondence problem in syntactic reconstruction. Diachronica 30(1), 95-122.\
__________________________________________________\
In compliance with data protection regulations, you may request that we remove your personal registration details at any time. (Use the following URL: https://www.editorialmanager.com/diachronica/login.asp?a=r). Please contact the publication office if you have any questions.\
}