{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25100\viewh18140\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
Reviewer #1: This paper is considerably revised from the first submission. There are some typos and other small editorial things, quite a few actually -- I won't give a list here as most are easily fixed, but some may require a bit more thought. For example, page 8 line 8, "we are not engaging in not sub-grouping directly". I think the second "not" should be dropped, but it's not clear what is being said here. So, the article needs a very careful edit for all these things. \

\f1\i0 \
Response. Thank you! I\'92m going over the text with a fine tooth comb once more for typos and editorial things. English is not my first language, so I know that I struggle with seeing certain things. I will engage colleagues. Thank you for your patience.\
\
I rephrased that particular sentence, you\'92re right there was a stray extra \'93not\'94.\
\
Old text: In this paper, we are comparing specifically conventional historical approaches to ASR with computational approaches to ASR --- we are not engaging in not sub-grouping directly\
\
New text: The computational methods reviewed in this paper only does ASR, they do not suggest alternative sub-groups or trees. This makes them a bit different from classical historical linguistics approaches to ASR where sub-grouping and ASR are done simultaneously.\
\

\f0\i Reviewer #1: There are a puzzling but large number of "?" where otherwise one might expect references -- not sure what that's about, but presumably it can be fixed easily enough. \

\f1\i0 \
Response: My apologies, I compiled the document before upload with an outdated bibliography file. I have fixed the linkage now, I\'92m sorry for the mistake.\
\

\f0\i Reviewer #1: Small editorial point, page 11, the various colours -- the yellow and white are too similar in colour and the purple and black are too similar -- maybe try colours that are more separated like green and red and so on. \

\f1\i0 \
Response: Good point! I\'92ve swapped the colors out to a green and purple shade that are more distinguishable and the absent data-points are wholly white (i.e. \'93invisible\'94). I\'92m avoiding red and green because they\'92re difficult for colour-blind folks, but I appreciate the concrete suggestion.\
\

\f0\i Reviewer #1: Please explain "over-dispersed" on page 14 (line 9). But on all substantive matters -- I'm now satisfied.\

\f1\i0 \
Good idea. I\'92ve added this footnote \'93Over-dispersed here means that the trait is spread out over the tips in a way that is very non-clustered, even less clustered than one might expect by chance. For example, sister-pairs may have opposite values to each other all throughout the tree.\'94\
\
\
\

\f0\i Reviewer #2: I am happy to hear that the author benefited from my suggestions on the previous draft of the paper, and appreciate that attempts were made to incorporate them. I also appreciate the large amount of work that has gone into the computations carried out for this paper, as is visible in the appendix.\

\f1\i0 \
Response: Thank you for the time you have taken in reviewing my paper, I appreciate that you have focussed on issues that may be present also for other classically oriented historical linguists.\
\

\f0\i Reviewer #2: Regrettably, the paper remains very difficult to read and process, and a general lack of clarity remains. The results remain very unclear and underspecified. What methods agree the most with HL, and why? From the results and conclusion, it would seem to be parsimony approaches, but this information is not found in the abstract or the introduction. \

\f1\i0 \
Response: Section 4.1 and the conclusions discusses this, but I have now revised the abstract to highlight this as well. The computational methods of ASR that agree the most with classical ASR HL are those that ignore branch lengths, most likely because classical historical linguists also ignore branch lengths. \
\

\f0\i Reviewer #2: The presentation of findings is rather milquetoast. If the goal is to entice people to do more ASR with computational methods, readers might benefit from knowing a bit more about why certain methods have produced the reconstructions they produce. I feel like this information is missing overall
\f1\i0 . \
\
Response: The benefit of computational ASR that I hoped to communicate, albeit a bit timidly perhaps, is that it is more transparent, reproducible and consistent. Those are a-priori reasons to go for these methods. The fact that there is much agreement in this particular case study I hope will make people more comfortable with the idea of applying computational approaches themselves. I have elaborated more on this in an updated version of the abstract. \
\

\f0\i Reviewer #2: More careful investigations of results, like those found in section 4.3 are on the right track, but unfortunately not very clearly written. Sections in general would benefit from a clear lead-in/lead-out structure that highlights the most important findings for readers.\

\f1\i0 \
Response:  I appreciate the point, but I find this hard to satisfy more detailed investigations of specific results within the scope of the paper without making it much too long. \
\
Reviewer #2: Some improvements have been made to the presentation of results. The heatmap is a major help in getting a bird's-eye view of the key findings. \
\
Response: I\'92m very glad you liked the heat map.\

\f0\i \
Reviewer #2:The correlation analyses involving D-statistics are interesting, but one has to go to the appendix to find them.
\f1\i0 \
\
Response: I believe that the summary of those analysis in section 4.1. (paragraph that starts with \'93We also carried out an analysis on whether phylogenetic signal..\'94) is sufficient for the main text of the paper.\
\
\
\
\
Some problems remain. The most minor of these is the preponderance of bibtex and latex errors, which makes it difficult to assess the appropriateness of certain quotations. Still, this made the draft overall less felicitous to read.\
\
Some new additions to the paper detract from, rather than improve the readability, in my opinion. I mentioned in my previous review that the use of the term comparative method should be perhaps qualified when dealing with reconstruction of morphosyntactic features. This seems to have led to a fairly lengthy excursus on reconstruction based on sound correspondences as well as the double cognacy condition, which takes up valuable space that could be devoted to discussing the results of the study in more detail (most\'a0Diachronica\'a0readers will probably be familiar with these topics).\
\
What is really missing here is a true disaggregation of the results that helps us learn when certain methods agree with HL, and why. We find hints here and there (e.g., p. 33, l. 34), but we are not left with any systematic understanding of what factors make computational methods agree with HL. Why should we use ASR? What methods are the best to use? Is the thesis of the paper essentially that all are equally good and it doesn't matter whether you use parsimony or ML? A strong assertion of claims is missing from the paper.\
\
Given the amount of data that has been analyzed here, I think the paper has potential. But it cannot be accepted in its current shape in that the overall argument and claims of the paper are hard to follow, the sections are sub-optimally structured, and the paper still does not provide much insight on why we see the overall results that we see, in my opinion.\
}